http://www.maddiesfund.org/glossary-of-terms.htm

A) Beginning Shelter Count (date): The number of dogs and cats in your shelter or in your care including fosters at the beginning of the reporting period. The reporting period is annual - either a calendar year or a fiscal year. (date) refers to the first day of the reporting period written in the following format: month/day/year.Intake (Live Dogs & Cats Only): This table only deals with live dogs and cats for which your shelter or animal group assumed responsibility. Dogs and cats categorized as "dead on arrival" or DOA are not included in these statistics. For intake animals, status is determined at the time paperwork is initiated. (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable, treatable-manageable, and unhealthy & untreatable.)B) From the Public: The number of live dogs and cats your shelter or animal group received from the public. This includes dogs and cats turned in or surrendered by their owners/guardians; stray dogs and cats turned in by the public; stray dogs and cats picked up in the field; and dogs and cats impounded for cruelty investigation, custody care, and statutory/ordinance impoundment. (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable, treatable-manageable, and unhealthy & untreatable.)C) Incoming Transfers from Organizations within Target Community: The number of dogs and cats your shelter or animal group received from other animal organizations participating in your collaborative group. (This only applies if the reporting organization is working collaboratively with other shelters/groups in their targeted area.) NOTE: On the community or coalition level, C (Incoming Transfers from Organizations within Target Community) should equal J (Outgoing Transfers to Organizations within Target Community). (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable, treatable-manageable, and unhealthy & untreatable.)D) Incoming Transfers from Organizations outside Target Community: The number of dogs and cats your shelter or animal group received from animal organizations that are not participating in your collaborative group. NOTE: If you are not part of a collaboration that is compiling statistics, then all your incoming transfers would be listed here. (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable, treatable-manageable, and unhealthy & untreatable.)E) From Owners/Guardians Requesting Euthanasia: The number of dogs and cats turned in or surrendered to your shelter or animal group by their owners/guardians for the purpose of euthanasia. This includes all categories of dogs and cats (healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable, treatable-manageable, unhealthy & untreatable). (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable, treatable-manageable, and unhealthy & untreatable.)F) Total Intake: The sum of lines B through E. This includes all live dogs and cats for which your shelter or animal group assumed responsibility.G) Owner/Guardian Requested Euthanasia (Unhealthy & Untreatable Only): The number of unhealthy & untreatable dogs and cats your shelter or animal group euthanized at the request of their owners/guardians and the number of dogs and cats ordered to be euthanized by legislative, judicial or istrative action. Do not include any dogs and cats your shelter or animal group euthanized at the request of their owners/guardians and who were considered to be healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable or treatable-manageable at the time of death. (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable, treatable-manageable, and unhealthy & untreatable.)H) Adjusted Total Intake: Lines F minus G. Total Intake minus the number of unhealthy & untreatable dogs and cats your shelter or animal group euthanized at the request of their owners/guardians. (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of unhealthy & untreatable.)I) Adoptions: The number of dogs and cats your shelter or animal group placed with members of the public. Do not include dogs and cats in foster homes or dogs and cats transferred to other animal welfare organizations. (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable, treatable-manageable, and unhealthy & untreatable.)J) Outgoing Transfers to Organizations within Target Community: The number of dogs and cats your shelter or animal group turned over to other animal organizations within your collaborative group. (This only applies if the reporting organization is working collaboratively with other shelters/groups in their targeted area.) NOTE: On the community or coalition level, J (Outgoing Transfers to Organizations within Target Community) should be equal to C (Incoming Transfers from Organizations within Target Community). (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable, treatable-manageable, and unhealthy & untreatable.)K) Outgoing Transfers to Organizations outside Target Community: The number of dogs and cats your shelter or animal group turned over to animal organizations that are not part of your collaborative group. NOTE: If you are not part of a collaboration which is compiling statistics, then all your outgoing transfers would be listed here. (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable, treatable-manageable, and unhealthy & untreatable.)L1) Return to Owner/Guardian: The number of stray dogs and cats your shelter or animal group reunited with their owners/guardians and the number of dogs and cats reclaimed by their owners/guardians.L2) Return to Habitat: The number of cats your shelter or animal group returned to their colony or relocated through TNR efforts.Dogs & Cats Euthanized: The number of dogs and cats your shelter or animal group euthanized, broken down into the following categories: healthy; treatable-rehabilitatable; treatable-manageable; and unhealthy & untreatable. Dogs and cats are categorized at the time of euthanasia. (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable, treatable-manageable, and unhealthy & untreatable.)M) Healthy (Includes Owner/Guardian Requested Euthanasia): The number of healthy dogs and cats that your shelter or animal group euthanized including the number of healthy dogs and cats your shelter or animal group euthanized at the request of their owners/guardians.N) Treatable - Rehabilitatable (Includes Owner/Guardian Requested Euthanasia): The number of treatable - rehabilitatable dogs and cats that your shelter or animal group euthanized including the number of treatable - rehabilitatable dogs and cats your shelter or animal group euthanized at the request of their owners/guardians. (These conditions are generally considered to be curable.)O) Treatable - Manageable (Includes Owner/Guardian Requested Euthanasia): The number of treatable - manageable dogs and cats that your shelter or animal group euthanized including the number of treatable - manageable dogs and cats your shelter or animal group euthanized at the request of their owners/guardians. (These conditions are generally considered to be chronic.)P) Unhealthy & Untreatable (Includes Owner/Guardian Requested Euthanasia): The number of unhealthy & untreatable dogs and cats that your shelter or animal group euthanized including the number of unhealthy & untreatable dogs and cats your shelter or animal group euthanized at the request of their owners/guardians and the number of dogs and cats ordered to be euthanized by legislative, judicial or administrative action.Q) Total Euthanasia: Sum of lines M through P. This includes all dogs and cats your shelter or animal group euthanized (Healthy, Treatable - Rehabilitatable, Treatable - Manageable, and Unhealthy & Untreatable). (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable, treatable-manageable, and unhealthy & untreatable.)R) Owner/Guardian Requested Euthanasia (Unhealthy & Untreatable Only): The number of unhealthy & untreatable dogs and cats that your shelter or animal group euthanized at the request of their owners/guardians and the number of dogs and cats ordered to be euthanized by legislative, judicial or administrative action. Do not include any dogs and cats your shelter or animal group euthanized at the request of their owners/guardians and who were considered to be healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable or treatable-manageable at the time of death. (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of healthy, treatable-rehabilitatable, treatable-manageable, and unhealthy & untreatable.)S) Adjusted Total Euthanasia: Total Euthanasia minus Owner/Guardian Request Euthanasia (Unhealthy & Untreatable Only). (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of unhealthy & untreatable.)T) Subtotal Outcomes: Sum of lines I through L plus S. This includes the number of dogs and cats that your shelter or animal group adopted, transferred, returned to owner/guardian. Do not include the number of dogs and cats who died or were lost while in your shelter or in your care or the number of unhealthy & untreatable dogs and cats that your shelter or animal group euthanized at the request of their owners/guardians or the number of dogs and cats ordered to be euthanized by legislative, judicial or administrative action. (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of unhealthy & untreatable.)U) Died or Lost in Shelter/Care: The number of dogs and cats for which your shelter or animal group assumed responsibility and who died or could not be accounted for. This includes the number of dogs and cats who died of medical complications (and were not euthanized), died in foster care or in transit, or were lost or stolen from the shelter.V) Total Outcomes: Sum of lines T and U. This is the total number of dog and cat outcomes which includes the number of dogs and cats your shelter or animal group adopted, transferred, returned to owner/guardian plus the number of dogs and cats for which your shelter or animal group assumed responsibility and who died of medical complications (and were not euthanized) or were lost or stolen (from the shelter or foster care). Total outcomes do not include the number of unhealthy & untreatable dogs and cats that your shelter or animal group euthanized at the request of their owners/guardians or the number of dogs and cats ordered to be euthanized by legislative, judicial or administrative action. (Please refer to Health & Behavior Categories for Shelter Animals for a description of unhealthy & untreatable.)W) Ending Shelter Count (date): The number of dogs and cats in your shelter or in your care including fosters at the end of the reporting period. The reporting period is annual - either a calendar year or a fiscal year. (date) refers to the last day of the reporting period written in the following format: month/day/year.
